#summary How to download install s#aml-architecture

= Introduction =

Things you will need:
 * mono 2.4 or .NET 3.5
For the CRUD generator and compass frameworks:
 * ruby 1.8 or 1.9
 * rubygems

= Installation =

== Install with the CRUD and Application generator ==

To install shaml you will need to use githubs gem server, as shaml is distributed there.

Linux:
{{{
sudo gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
sudo gem install sztupy-shaml
}}}

Windows:
{{{
gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
gem install sztupy-shaml
}}}

This will install shaml, compass and haml-edge on your computer.

== Install without ruby ==

Alternatively you can get the bare application without any fancy generation framework. Download the latest VS2008 solution from [http://github.com/sztupy/shaml/downloads github]

Don't forget that if you don't have compass installed, then the stylesheet generation build process will always fail. Remove the command "compass --update" from the post build process if you don't use it.

= Compiling =

== Windows ==

Open the solution, and press build.

== Mono ==

Run
{{{
shaml compile
}}}
in the solution directory to compile both the application and the tests.

If you don't use ruby then run
{{{
gmcs -recurse:*.cs `ls ../libraries/*.dll | sed "s/../-r:../"` -r:System.Web.Routing -r:System.Web -t:library -out:bin/WebBase.dll
}}}
from the main Web directory. Then copy all files from the libraries dir to the bin dir, and you're ready. (of course replace bin/WebBase.dll with the name of your project)

= Running =

== Windows ==

Press run in Visual Studio

== Mono ==

Run 
{{{
shaml server
}}}
in the solution directory or run
{{{
MONO_PATH="/path/to/app/bin" xsp2 --port 8080
}}}
in the web application project directory